Hi, guys.
Welcome.
In this lecture, we're going to create the login functionality.
Now we're going to do this within the controller territory and then the host controller five and now
we can use controller and beat to make this right.
And within the class that is the OTS controller class, we are going to create a new function.
Okay.
So over here we can just go ahead and specify it is a type of future.
And.
Strange.
And now we're going to call this function log in user users.
Okay.
And within the parenthesis we are going to pass the fields we need and it's just going to be the email
and password.
And we can just go ahead and say it is a type of string email and it is a type of strange password.
Okay.
It's going to look very similar to that of this sign of users function.
You can basically just copy most of this stuff there.
Okay.
And over here, we can create a variable to store the possible error.
String.
RAZ And we can say some error occurred.
Okay.
And now we can have a try at the cash block.
Try.
Try and catch.
And within the tribe, look, we can have some validation so we can say if email.
Email dots is not empty.
And the password.
Dart is not empty.
Sorry is not a picture.
It's not.
This is the one you're using.
And if it is not empty, then only we want to be able to log in the user.
And in order to do that, we're going to need the Firebase host.
And you can see we already have it over here.
We have a variable to save the value.
Okay.
So we can then say on the score.
Arts.
And the sign in user with email, sign in user with email and password.
This is basically it.
And you can see we are passing the email and the password.
So over here we can have the semicolon.
This will take some time in order to log in the user or sign in the user so we can wait this.
And Via.
I was sorry.
Okay.
We need to use the async over here and that's easier.
It.
And here we can update the.
We can see as it's equal to success.
And for now we can also print something to ourself and say.
Log in.
So says Foley.
Okay.
Great.
Else if these fields are not filled in.
So you're going to have the heads of.
We want to update the rest variable.
To say, please.
Please.
Fields must not be empty.
And if the error is other from this probably network issue, we want to catch the error.
So you're going to need to say as is equal to e dot.
E to string.
And now over here we can then return.
Return address.
You can see now that hair has gone.
Okay, great.
Now you can see it looks similar to that of this.
For this, this is create a user with email and password.
So we're basically creating the user.
And you can see we are also updating the rest variable from this era according to sources, and we are
printing the user email to our democracy.
So and you can see it very similar to that of this.
Okay.
Now we can use control and to save this file and.
We then need to claw.
This function over here called login users.
So I'm going to go to my.
Customer login screen.
And really have the horse controller, I guess you already have the controller and restored the results
in a verbal code or the score controller.
Right.
Okay.
So we can just go ahead and create a function over here and let's make it more cleaner.
So you can call this log in users.
And we can then say on the scoreboards.
Ford's controller is going to be sorry.
Controller.
Now we have assets of the class and so we can have access to the login.
Uses OC now you can just I think I've already get rid of the phone controller, so we really do not
need that.
We do not need that full name.
We basically just need the email and the password to log in the user so you can get rid of that if you
still have it in yours.
And this is the controller and this is the password controller and you can see we are already bind it
to the field because we basically copy this code.
Right.
So you can see this is for the.
Email and we have the image controller.
So whatever value we're going to pass over here.
I'm going to pass in this email is going to be stored in this.
In this email controller available.
So currently we have f f stored over here and same as the password.
Whatever is going to be passed over here, it's going to be stored in this password controller.
Okay.
So remember in the we remember recently we created two variables called email and password and these
are the two variables.
So these are basically just variables.
We attach values.
You can see we did not say it's equal to something like this.
Right?
We basically just created the variable without adding any value to it.
So since we have just called this login users function, it is expecting us to pass the two values to
it.
So for this.
This is going to be on the score.
Email controller.
Then the value of whatever the user is tapping in that should be the F and for the password.
This is going to be on the score password.
Controller.
Dodd says.
You can see this is one of the reasons we have to make this function private.
In the other fight, that is the.
London customer.
Screen.
If we get rid of this.
This on the score.
And over here, we're referring to the image controller.
There is probability of referring to this on the score email instead of the one we have over there.
So you can see sometimes it's going to get we're going to have an error.
So that was why we have to make it on the score in order for this email to be unique to just this file.
So we are sure of this is the image controller we are referring to and not the other and the customer
screen.
And as well we can use the basic of it and the R rate in order to wait for the function because it is
a future.
Okay.
And now we can then call this function.
I think this should be it over here.
Okay.
And.
Log in.
Logan uses.
Okay.
This country.
And new to the.
It puts.
Okay.
And now let's try.
I think I have a user called my colleague.
My colleague, Mark or Mark Poor?
Yeah.
I think I have something like that.
Mac.
Paul, it's Gmail.
That's com.
And the password is b E.J. y e c so you can click on login.
I guess something is going on here.
Okay.
We have successfully logged in.
Right.
Okay.
Now, what you're going to try to do now is this is your assignment.
You are going to create a new screen called customer on screen, then email the user logs in.
You're going to take the user to that customer.
On screen.
Okay.
That's what you're going to do then.
I not to do this.
I'm going to give you some little tips and how to do that.
It's going to be similar to which you have over here.
You can see over here.
We are basically saying sign up uses function rights and we are setting the stage for this load of spin.
So they will click on the signup button.
If the field is filled field and we're going to start this loader spinner and we are going to create
the user with the email password and we're going to set stage in order to stop the load spinner after
the account must have been created.
Or if there is any error, we are going to stop the loader spinner.
And over here we are basically checking if rest is equal to success is not equal to such a success.
If it is not equal to success, it means there is an error.
And we basically want to.
Show that user the error.
Else it means the account was successfully created and we want to navigate to the home screen.
But what we're going to do is we're not going to navigate to the home screen.
Now let's have a more security check.
We are going to navigate to the.
Login screen for the user to.
Login is for our accounts.
So we call this customer log in screen.
Okay, great.
So what you're going to do?
You're going to do something similar to this, but instead of log in to the okay, you're going to do
something similar to this and you're going to log in the user to the home screen.
So what you have to do is within the views you're going to need to create a new file which you're going
to call customer.
On the score home on the score screen.
So you're going to take the user to the screen for the now we can just go with the set list.
With that.
Customer.
Home screen.
So take the user to the screen.
I'm just going to use control dots.
Alights and reports the material to that package so you can take the user to the screen.
So do this yourself and see if you can also had the loaded spinner to this.
Okay, this is your assignment.
Okay?
Okay, guys, see you in the next lecture.